Migrate to Wire for dependency injection (#32289)
grafana/grafana: contribute/architecture/backend/services.md

Grafana uses [Wire](https://github.com/google/wire), which is a code generation tool that automates connecting components using [dependency injection](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dependency_injection). Dependencies between components are represented in Wire as function parameters, encouraging explicit initialization instead of global variables.

Even though the services in Grafana do different things, they share a number of patterns. To better understand how a service works, let's build one from scratch!

Before a service can start communicating with the rest of Grafana, it needs to be registered with Wire, see `ProvideService` factory function/method in the service example below and how it's being referenced in the wire.go example below.

When Wire is run it will inspect the parameters of `ProvideService` and make sure that all it's dependencies has been wired up and initialized properly.

**Service example:**

```go
package example

// Service service is the service responsible for X, Y and Z.
type Service struct {
    logger   log.Logger
    cfg      *setting.Cfg
    sqlStore *sqlstore.SQLStore
}

// ProvideService provides Service as dependency for other services.

> func ProvideService(cfg *setting.Cfg, sqlStore *sqlstore.SQLStore) (*Service, error) {

Reviewer: I think we should extend the description to say that ProvideService can accept dynamic number of arguments where arguments are other existing service implementations. Just not very obvious from the first look.

Also, related thing - previously there was a possibility to set a priority for a service - it's now gone and determined by an order inside wireSets?

Reviewer 2: Will fix this later in a separate PR.

Regarding priority, there's no need for that with Wire. Wire will make sure to resolve the service dependency graph for us so that services are initialized in the correct/expected. order

    "github.com/grafana/grafana/pkg/services/sqlstore"
)

var wireBasicSet = wire.NewSet(
	example.ProvideService,

)

var wireSet = wire.NewSet(
	wireBasicSet,
	sqlstore.ProvideService,
)

var wireTestSet = wire.NewSet(
	wireBasicSet,
)

func Initialize(cla setting.CommandLineArgs, opts Options, apiOpts api.ServerOptions) (*Server, error) {
	wire.Build(wireExtsSet)
	return &Server{}, nil
}

func InitializeForTest(cla setting.CommandLineArgs, opts Options, apiOpts api.ServerOptions, sqlStore *sqlstore.SQLStore) (*Server, error) {
	wire.Build(wireExtsTestSet)
	return &Server{}, nil
}

```

## Background services

A background service is a service that runs in the background of the lifecycle between Grafana starts up and shutdown. If you want a service to be run in the background your Service should satisfy the `registry.BackgroundService` interface and add it as argument to the [ProvideBackgroundServiceRegistry](/pkg/server/backgroundsvcs/background_services.go) function and add it as argument to `NewBackgroundServiceRegistry` to register it as a background service.

You can see an example implementation above of the Run method.

## Disabled services

> If you want to guarantee that a background service is not run by Grafana when certain criteria is met/service is disabled your service should satisfy the `registry.CanBeDisabled` interface. When the service.IsDisabled method return false Grafana would not call the service.Run method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to guarantee that a background service is not run by Grafana when certain criteria is met/service is disabled your service should satisfy the `registry.CanBeDisabled` interface. When the service.IsDisabled method returns `true` Grafana would not call the service.Run method.
```

Reviewer 2: Will fix this later in a separate PR
